Add a page describing the bundles. (#673)
lit/lit.dev: packages/lit-dev-content/site/docs/libraries/bundles.md

---
title: Bundles
eleventyNavigation:
  key: Bundles
  parent: Related libraries
  order: 4
---

Lit is available as pre-built, single-file bundles. These bundles are useful for
situations where you can't use npm or just want to experiment without setting up
a build process.

<div class="alert alert-warning">

**If you're using npm for client-side dependencies, you should use the [`lit`

> package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/lit) instead of these bundles.** The

Reviewer: This is where it'd be good to have a canonical "Install from npm" page on lit.dev to link to.

> package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/lit) instead of these bundles.** The

Reviewer: Maybe "instead of these bundles" -> "not these bundles" (to avoid seeming to imply that these bundles are a first option)

> bundles intentionally combine most or all of Lit into a single file. This can

Reviewer: It's not just build tools, it's also the browser - the browser doesn't load what's not imported. I would cut this to "This can cause your page to load more JavaScript than needed"

prevent some build tools from removing the parts of Lit your project doesn't
use, which means your users may download more code than they strictly need.

</div>

> ## Download

Reviewer: Before *Download* I would describe the two bundle type briefly in a list/table format.

> The bundles can be found on GitHub in [the lit/dist

Reviewer 2: Can we make the first thing here the actual link to the thing you should download (maybe one for min and one for al)?

Reviewer 2: Combined organization suggestion based on other feedback:

##Download
 * start with 2 links to most current versions of min and all.
 * describe contents (from variants) and give warning about choosing and using one of them.
 * just say that source maps are included.
 
 ##Usage
  * just show the example usage for each variant and say they are each in their own folder.
  
  ##CDN

Author: I think the unversioned link to jsDeliver now covers this.

repository](https://github.com/lit/dist). To download a particular version, go
to [the repository's tags](https://github.com/lit/dist/tags), find the version
you want, and click either the "zip" or "tar.gz" link to download an archive of
the bundles in the chosen format.

## Usage

The archive has multiple folders, each containing a bundle and its source map.

> The bundles are standard JavaScript modules with no dependencies - any modern

Reviewer 2: Suggest moving this to be the 2nd sentence in the intro, after `Lit is available...`. It's the most important info.

browser should be able to import and run the bundles directly.

For example, if you extracted the bundles into a directory called `lit-bundles`
next to one of your source files, you could use the `core` bundle in that source
file like this:

```js
import {LitElement, html} from './lit-bundles/core/lit-core.min.js';
```

> ### Source maps

Reviewer 2: I don't think we need the detailed info here. Just that the bundles include source maps is enough info (e.g. you must also not edit this file, but we don't say that).

Reviewer: I think we can remove mention of this all together. Our primary published sources have source maps and we don't document it there.

Each bundle directory includes a source map. If you want to be able to view
Lit's unminified sources while debugging, keep this file in the same directory
as its associated bundle and don't rename it. If you update your project's
bundle, you also need to update its source map.

> ## CDN

Reviewer: I would probably put CDN before Download - that might be the bigger use case

> As an alternative to hosting your own copy of Lit's bundles, you can also import

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also import
```

> them from CDNs that serve assets directly from repositories hosted on GitHub.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the bundles from CDNs that serve assets directly from repositories hosted on GitHub.
```

For example, you could import the latest `v2` release of [the `core`
bundle](#core) from [jsDelivr](https://jsdelivr.com) like this:

```js

> import {LitElement, html} from 'https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/gh/lit/dist@2/core/lit-core.min.js';

Reviewer: IMO, this should be one of the first bits of information in the doc

```

See [jsDelivr's features
page](https://www.jsdelivr.com/features#:~:text=GitHub%20CDN) for more
information on how to format the URL.

> ## Bundle variants

Reviewer 2: Move this into the usage section and remove the detailed info about the files included. Think it's unnecessary.

The bundles are currently available in two variants: `core` and `all`.

<div class="alert alert-warning">

**Don't use more than one bundle in your project.** The bundles each contain
full copies of overlapping content. If you need to switch bundles, you should
update every bundle reference in your project to point to the new bundle.

</div>

### `core/`

> - `lit-core.min.js` - the `core` bundle

Reviewer 2: Remove file list for this and all. Just seems unnecessary and obvious.

- `lit-core.min.js.map` - the `core` bundle's source map

The `core` bundle contains only a critical subset of Lit's features. It exports
all of the same items as the main module of the `lit` npm package:
[`html`](/docs/api/templates/#html), [`css`](/docs/api/styles/#css),
[`render`](/docs/api/templates/#render), and
[`LitElement`](/docs/api/LitElement/#LitElement), for example.

### `all/`

- `lit-all.min.js` - the `all` bundle
- `lit-all.min.js.map` - the `all` bundle's source map

> The `all` bundle includes everything in the `core` bundle as well as [all

Reviewer: I'd try to write this more concisely / declaratively:

Includes everything in "core" plus all other modules in the `lit` package. `html`, and `svg` from `lit/static-html.js` are renamed `staticHtml` and `staticSvg` respectively to avoid name collisions.
